---
title: GSoC 2020 Week-3
tags: [Sympy, GSoC]
style: fill
color: primary

description: Week 3 of GSoC with SymPy
---

I spent this week working on the implementation of the `ParametricIntegral` class. 

### Modifying API of ParametricRegion
When I was writing the test cases, I realized that API of the ParametricRegion could be improved. Instead of passing limits as dictionary, tuples can be used. 
So I modified the API of the ParametricRegion class. The new API is closer to the API of the `integral` class and more intuitve.  I made a separate [PR](https://github.com/sympy/sympy/pull/19580) for this change to make it easy for reviewers. 

Example of the new API:
```python
ParametricRegion( ( x+y, x*y ), (x, 0, 2), (y, 0, 2))
```

### Handling scalar fields with no base scalars
As discussed in previous posts, we decided to not associate a coordinate system with the parametric region. Instead, we assume that the parametricregion is defined in the coordinate system of the field of which the integral is being calculated. We calucate the position vector and normal vector of the parametric region using the base scalars and vectors of the fields. This works fine for most cases. But when the field does not contain any any base scalar or vector in its expression, we cannot extract the coordinate system from the field.
```python
ParametricIntegral(150, circle)
# We cannot determine the coordinate system from the field. 
# To calculate the line integral, we need to find the derivative of the position vector.
# This is not possible until we know the base vector of the field
```
To handle this situation, I assign a coordinate system C to the region. This does not affect the result in any way as the result is independent of it. It just allows the existing algotithm to work in this case.

### Separate class for vector and scalar fields
Francesco suggested to make separate classes based on the nature of the field: vector and scalar. I am open to this idea. But I think it will be more easy and intuitive for the users if they can use the same class to calculate the integral. I do not think they are different enough from a user's perspective to have a separate interface. 

Maybe we can have a function `vectorintegrate` which returns the object of `ParametricVectorIntegral` or `ParametricScalarIntegral` depending on the nature of the field. Infact, this can work for other type of integrals too. Suppose we implement a class `ImplicitIntegral` to calculate the integral over an implicit region. The `vectorintegrate` function can then return an object of `ImplicitIntegral` object by identifying the region is defined implicitly. I think this will be great. I will have more discussion with Francesco on this aspect.

### Topological sort of parameters
When evaluating double integral, the result some times depend upon the order in which the integral is evalauted. If the bounds of one parameter `u` depends on another parameter `v`, we should integrate first with respect to `u` and then `v`. 

For example, consider the problem of evaluating the area of triangle. 
```python
T = ParametricRegion((x, y), (x, 0, 2), (y, 10 - 5*x))
```
The area of the triangle is 10 units and should be indepenent of the order parameters are specified at the time of object intiliaztion. But the double integral depends on the order of integration. 
```
>>> integrate(1, (x, 0, 2), (y, 10 - 5*x))
20 - 10*x
>>> integrate(1, (y, 0, 10 - 5*x), (x, 0, 2))
10
```
So it is necessary that parameters are passed to `integrate` in the correct order. To overcome this issue, we topologically sort the parameters. SymPy already had function to perform toplogically sort in its utilities module. I implemented a function which generates the graph and passes it to `topological_sort` function. This made my work easy.

### Long computation time of Integrals
Some integrals are taking too long to compute. When base scalars in the field are replaced by their parametric equavalents, the expression of the field becomes large. Further, the integrand is the dot product of the field with a vector or product of field and the magnitude of the vector. The integrate function takes about 20-30 seconds to calculate the integral. I think this behaviour is due to the expression of integrand growing structurally despite it being simple. 

For example,
```
>>>solidsphere = ParametricRegion((r*sin(phi)*cos(theta), r*sin(phi)*sin(theta), r*cos(phi)),\
                                (r, 0, 2), (theta, 0, 2*pi), (phi, 0, pi))
>>> ParametricIntegral(C.x**2 + C.y**2, solidsphere)
```
In this case, the parametric field when replaced with parametersr become `r**2*sin(phi)**2*sin(theta)**2 + r**2*sin(phi)**2*cos(theta)**2` although it can be easily simplified to `r**2*sin(phi)`.

SymPy has a function called `simplify`. `simplify` attempt to apply various methods to simplify an expression. When the integrand is simplified using it before passing to integrate, the result is return almost immediately. Francesco rightly pointed out that simplify is computationally expensive and we can try to some specific simplification. I will look into it.

### Failing test cases
Some test case are failing because of integrate function returning results in different forms. The results are mathematically equivalent but different in terms of structure. I found this strange. I do not think this has do with hashing. I still have not figured out this problem.

### Next week's goal 
Hopefully, I will complete the work on the ParamatricIntegral and get it merged. We can then start discusissing about representing implicit regions.
{% include comments.html %}

